key deer are said to be the inspiration
for the film Bambi and just like Bambi
are now suffering at the hands of man
there are now only about 600 key deer
left in the wild a decline caused
largely because man and deer want to
live in the same places
plans with other endangered species it's
really loss of habitat that is the major
issue the keys are a very small set of
violence and as the developers move in
there's less and less room for the deer
the deer left are confined to the
southern part of the keys but with so
few there in a very small space an
outbreak of disease could be disastrous
to make sure this doesn't happen roel
Lopez from the key Dan national refuge
regularly checks their health of
individuals in the population today
we're giving him a hand Stephen true
let's go through this subdivision and
see we find anything okay normal place
you'd find them yeah the many of the
deer are organized so they tend to sort
of hang out in people's yard health
monitoring is done twice a week but
first you have to catch their oh yeah
got him oh hold on a minute just you
guys wait let me try this perfect Steve
intruder can you guys help me we'll go
in and we'll set up a drive net okay you
can see he's pretty calm right now he's
sitting there eating some some feed that
we threw in there all right let's go go
on in but a lot closer get behind us
okay we'll keep them on that side the
idea is for me to stretch a net across
the yard as Steven rel drive the animal
towards it by you pull it yeah he'll hit
it and you let them take a little bit
you may want to stay on this side yeah
cuz he's gonna run this way but keep the
net down keep the net down poop yeah
it's all right hold on a minute keep it
down I'm sorry we don't want to push
them too hard because he'll try to jump
the fence exactly hope most game good
catch can we put the hood on Steve so
the animal calms down good cats these we
got out of the neck rugby skills came in
yeah something that's interesting about
the key here whenever you put pressure
right in like this it really calms him
down so if he starts to kick do that
there's a good jump that mmm Frogley I
mean really thought he was gonna get
away there no sir yeah you're at the
trickiest part a good time is yeah
that's what is going to be really easy
but it wasn't at all now if you bring up
too early doc they stop yeah turn around
yet okay once a deer is caught we take
as much information as possible
including weight and blood samples
correct great job we're interested in
trying to get a better understanding I'm
just a bit general biology of the
species okay and so survival rates
reproductive rates things of that sort
say if anything unusual happens in this
small population you can pick up in it
pretty quickly that's correct okay full
release each deer is given a unique
number so it can easily be identified
and it's going to just slip on like a
t-shirt okay